# Personal Portfolio
## Contents of this repository
In this personal portfolio I reflect on the group project for the course Data Science for Smart Environments. At the start of this course I also defined some learning goals that I wanted to work on during this course. This could either be embedded in the group project or in another way. These learning goals are shown below. For each learning goal you can find a seperate branch in which I break down how I worked on the learning goal. There I will also tell something about the methodology, data sources, implementation, results and conclusions. Apart from a reflection on learning goals I will also give a reflection on the group project. This includes a reflection on the potential use and application of the project outcome and the main take-aways from the project. This project reflection can be found in this readme. 

## Original Learning Goals
1. Visualization: For this learning goal I wanted to implement a new visualization technique in the group project. An idea about the type of visualization was to make a heatmap using the python Folium package or arcGIS.
2. Time management: For this goal I wanted to keep track of time in our project by making a weekly planning and setting clear and concrete goals.
3. Statistical data analysis: For this goal I wanted to learn more about data analysis and statistics and learning new statistical methods.
4. My role in data science: For this goal I wanted to reflect on my role in data science and how it aligns with my academic interests.

## Group Project
During the group project my group focussed on wind energy production in the Netherlands. We derived and compared the amount of wind energy produced per turbine from a weather model as well as from weather station measurements. Deliverables were some plots of energy production over time as well as some regression plots, covariance matrices and a principal components analysis. During this project I maily focussed on the data collection and processing. In the end I also managed to produce some plots. 

### Methodology
I found datasets for the locations of wind turbines as well as the locations and measurements from weather stations. Another team member downloaded data derived from the model (both location and measurements). We first matched the model location data to the wind turbine location data from which we selected a set of wind turbines for analysis. I then matched these selected wind turbines to the weather station location data and measurements. This step took a lot of time as I first matched the weather stations to the selected turbines incorrectly resulting in all weather stations being used, while in reality some weather stations were not closest to any turbine and would therefore be irrelevant while some weather stations would be matched to multiple turbines. The phase in which the location data on both selected turbines and weather stations was then matched to the actual measurements at those weather stations was then very difficult as measurements at one weather station could not be joined to multiple turbines, leaving us with only a limited set of turbines. 

### What went well
Finding data for our project went really well. We quickly found datasets on weather station measurements and wind turbine locations. The quantity of data that we found was also very high. Daily wind speed measurements for 50 weather stations, locations of about 4200 wind turbines and a ton of Harmonie data. Processing data initially also went well. Matching the Harmonie data to the wind turbines was very quick. In the analysis the coding part went quit well. We managed to make a lot of graphs showing wind speed and energy production for different turbines. I personally really like the graphs in which the highest and lowest ranking turbines in terms of energy produced are shown over different months. I also think that as a group we worked together quite well. Everyone had their own tasks on which to focus while also helping others when needed.  

### What could have gone better
One thing that could have been better was the research question we defined at the start. The first aim of the research was to investigate the total wind energy production in the Netherlands. This would be insightful to say something about whether the country is on track to meet it's renewable energy goal. However, in matching the Harmonie and measurement data to the turbines we were left with a dataset including a limited selection of turbines. This is not a good way of saying anything about the total wind energy production for the entire country. With this project we did not really produce a lot of meaningful insights. I think for the future it is good to ask yourself the question: Which new information or knowledge do we want this research to produce? You can critically reflect on that beforehand, which I think really helps in determining the aim of the research. 

### Potential Application of Project Outcome
As already stated I don't think the outcome of our project really provided a lot of meaningful insights. It basically shows that bigger turbines and higher wind speeds produce more energy, which is known from the formula that computes the energy production. If the scale of the research would be larger and we would include all turbines we would be able to estimate the total wind energy production. This would be a valuable insight in terms of the renewable energy goals. The machine learning part of the project would be able to produce new information. This could be used to identify optimal regions for wind energy production. To really do this properly you should also take into account other factors like land use, protected areas, stakeholders, noise pollution and shading effects. This makes it quite difficult to identify suitable regions. 
